---
layout: post
title: How I became 99.999% of Russian`s students in CS
published: true
---

A story about my long path to win the National Olympiad in Informatics. 

## Proofs (in Russian)
- [official results of the final stage of the National Olympiad in Informatics](http://rosoi.net/2019/result/)
- [approximate total number of participants](https://externat.foxford.ru/polezno-znat/vseros)


## Lucky chance to start

Since 2014 I was studying in "Intellectual" school, where I first met my coach [Elena Andreeva](https://istina.msu.ru/workers/1432097/). She is the trainer and manager of Russian and Moscow teams in Competitive Programming. I was one of her students in **"Intellectual"** where she was also teaching. She inspired me to study deeply **algorithms&data structures** and facilitates me by both mentorship and invitations to the state training camps. Her help is invaluable to me. It's mere luck to know here.

## On the path
Since 6th grade, I have been assiduously studying **Competitive Programming**. It was quite difficult to combine profound study at school with numerous training camps. My preparation for the olympiads was not limited to them, I also master CS at home myself. These efforts allowed me to become a prize-winner of half-final in 2016 (7th grade).

## Great fail
Seasonal skill fluctuations are normal for sport. I was too proud of my previous achievement to restore my skills after a month or two of proper summer vacations. Avoidance of problems did not solve it. Thus, I even did not repeat my previous result.

## Per aspera
I was ashamed of my mistake. I felt the need for self-rehabilitation upon my coach. I was deeply determined to do it by winning the final stage of the Olympiad in 2018. The impossibility of reaching the goal fascinated me. With the help of a new mentor [Vasiliy Alferov](https://github.com/vasalf) I studied Competitive Programming more than 20 hours per week. It may not seem a lot, but on the other hand, my school program was about 35 academic hours per week. So, it required quite a good **time management** to combine effectively.


## Ad astra
With the mere fortune, I was the last invited person to the final stage of the Olympiad in 2018. I prepared quite well for the final, but due to low stress dealing skills I lost. I did not give up! So, I learned how to **deal with stress and panic**. I knew, that in the end, I would win. As a result of 5 years-long effort, I won in 2019.

## Epilogue
With the successful end of my competitive career, my soul has terrified. I got used to being a part of this sport. I felt a lack of it in my life as something improper. But it's time to go on. To new horizons!
